patients with irregular heart beats,
called atrial fibrillation,
are at an increased risk for blood clots
in the appendage of the heart.
These blood clots can leave the heart
and travel to other organs
such as the brain and cause a stroke.
Blood thinners can be used effectively
but there are some patients
who cannot tolerate this therapy.
For these patients,
a left atrial appendage occlusion device
is an acceptable alternative.
Overtime the bodies own tissue
grows over the device.
Preventing formation of blood clots and stroke in the future.
The left atrial appendage procedure usually take 1-2 hours
and most often is done under general anesthesia.
During implantation of the left atrial appendage occlusion device
a groin puncture is made
and a catheter is inserted into a vein in your leg
and threaded up into your heart.
The device is thread through the catheter into the heart.
And once in the heart, it opens like a parachute,
and permanently seals off the left atrial appendage.
Blood thinning medications are continued
for a period of time.
After the procedure,
patients can usually go home the same day
or the following day.
You will be ready for discharge
when your blood pressure and heart rhythm are stable,
you can get out of bed with minimal assistance,
and your groin sites are stable.